What was the process of winning an Emmy?
When I got up on stage, the first thing
I said is, "I'm a YouTuber." How do you
come up with ideas for your videos that
get millions of views? Step number one
is for people who aren't married to a
business part, how do you find someone
to do this?
Oh, man. We have like 16 full-time
employees.
What's a monthly overhead?
Over $100,000.
Did you guys sell your blood to buy your
first camera?
You did your research.
Yeah, some context is needed. Is there a
partnership that you said no to? Cuz it
would have been a conflict of interest.
The fact that I crossed that line to
begin with is on me and I take
responsibility for it.
I think it's the first time you guys
have talked about that.
Yeah, it is. Yeah.
Palms are sweaty.
You're very good at what you do.
[music]
Before we get into it, make sure you
subscribe and ring the bell because we
have another video coming out with
Johnny Harris where he breaks down his
biggest video ever that 12 million
views. He goes through it frame by
frame. It's one of the most insightful
things I think I've heard. Plus, you're
not going to want to miss our other
interviews and studio tours coming out
cuz we got so much good stuff. And guys,
I see the stats. 97% of you who watch
this show don't even subscribe. 97%. And
just hitting that little subscribe
button and ringing the bell goes a long
way to helping us land guests and make
even bigger videos for you. All right,
now back to it. Johnny, thanks for
coming on the show, man.
Glad to be here.
I got to say, I don't think there's a
YouTuber who has impacted the way I prep
for interviews more than you. I look at
That's a compliment. I have to say that.
No, I mean, I see the research you put
into explainers. I'm like, for
interviews, I just try to bring the same
level of prep. So, it's
I appreciate it's it is the bread and
butter of what we do is obsess about the
story beforehand. Everything you see on
screen is just so much work in pre-pro.
I have a lot of questions about that and
getting to the process. I have to start
out by sharing this because these are a
few of your videos that I I think you're
so good at posing questions that I
didn't even know I had and then suddenly
wanted to find the answer to everything
from like why is American breakfast
dessert or like why is like you know
using shampoo every day like you know a
lie like so how do you come up with
ideas for your videos that get millions
of views? There's a willingness for me
to say these are stupid questions that
people would be like, "Oh, I'm
embarrassed to ask this, but I'm like,
let's not be embarrassed. Let's just ask
it. Why do we shampoo every day? That's
kind of a scary question." Like, I I
don't like American breakfast. Like, I'm
just going to kind of say it out loud.
And and I think people appreciate the
sense of of like, I'm just going to ask
these questions even though they might
not be what like normal journalists are
asking. I mean even though the topic
changed I think the process seems to be
the same. Um you once said the number
one mistake that uh people make in video
is not being a visual first storyteller.
I'm par paraphrasing a bit but if
there's a million good stories that
should be reported in the world. You
said my philosophy is that only about
900 should be told in video form the
rest should be text articles etc. How do
you pick the ideas that should be
videos? So for me, and this is something
I learned um at Vox, this idea of visual
first writing, visual first
storytelling. And I find that a lot of
video makers will kind of put imagery
next to their words and kind of say,
"Well, that's video." For us, we want
the words and the imagery to dance
perfectly together. We want that to be
an immersive experience. And so, not all
stories have that. Not all stories have
a visual that when you see the visual,
you immediately understand the important
aspects of the story, you understand the
tension. What I love is finding a visual
that anyone, regardless of how informed
they are on the topic, the moment they
see it, they can tell that something's
up, something's happening here, and I
want to know more.
So, that happens to be a filter for us
when we're looking for stories. when I'm
curious about something, if I can think
of a visual that helps explain it, that
is like the kind of green light that I
feel kind of in my gut.
To get specific, are there a few
examples of visual anchor past videos
that you could call out?
So, a few years ago when I was at Vox, I
was doing a series called Borders and um
I wanted to focus on the border between
Colombia and Venezuela where there was
this massive migration crisis happening
and most outlets were going there and
sort of filming just people coming
across the border, right? And it's like
that's that's a visual anchor in of
itself. Just people flooding across the
border from Venezuela. When I got to the
town where that was happening, I
definitely went and filmed that. But
then I looked around and said like, what
else is happening here? And there were a
couple visual anchors that were just
hiding in plain sight that no one else
was covering. One of them was there was
a a vendor on the side of the street who
was making um sculptures out of money
out of out of currency. Venezuelan
believe ours that were now worth nothing
because of the hyperinflation crisis. He
was taking that and using it as a raw
material to make baskets and like swan
sculptures and all this stuff that ended
up being like these this beautiful art,
but it was so symbolic. You don't have
to know anything about macroeconomics,
about the geopolitics of South America
to see that something's going on here.
This guy's using money to make
sculptures.
And so that was a visual anchor. A few
blocks away, there was a woman who had
just come over from Venezuela and she
was selling her hair. She was cutting
her hair, giving it to this like
middleman who was then selling it to
people making wigs. And so there you
just saw these human moments that you
that I put in the intro to say, "Hey,
there's something bigger going on here."
Yes, it has to do with economics. Yes,
it has to do with geopolitics, but you
can see the tension just by looking at
these visual anchors. That to me is the
best use of video to bring somebody in
and really hook them into a topic that
maybe they wouldn't look at otherwise.
Are there pieces of advice or tips to
find visual anchors to make for a good
video that don't require travel?
Absolutely. Um, sometimes a visual
anchor is actually a piece of data.
We're doing a video right now called why
you're so tired.
The visual anchor for that video is
actually the Google Trends graph
that that for the search why am I so
tired? And if you look at that trend
over the the search trend over the last,
you know, 10 years, you see this just
uptick. people are asking that question
more and more. You don't need to know
anything about that topic to see that
graph and say it's going up. You can
immediately capture. So in that in that
sense is a data point. Um other visual
anchors sometimes are a document like
sometimes we go back into CIA
declassified documents and we'll find
one moment where George Bush and Dick
Cheney are having a secret meeting and
it and it got leaked and we just show a
conversation between these two people.
And you don't need to know any context
to see something's up here. So visual
anchors hide in a lot of different
forms. There's no sort of secret sauce
to finding them. I'm just always on the
lookout for that little hook, that
little thing that if if someone sees it,
they'll be brought into the story in a
more immersive way. We have your Emmy
award behind us.
Wow.
Just naturally. [laughter]
Sneaky.
Yeah. So many creators are trying to do
more than just YouTube in terms of
elevating you know their storytelling
their their brand. What was the process
of winning an Emmy? I mean I I feel
you've raised the bar for all of us by
like you know bringing that home. I felt
it was like a hometown win like you were
brought home Emmy. What was that
process? What did you win for? Give
people context for may not know.
So I've had a long relationship with the
New York Times uh video team. I almost
worked for them multiple times when I
was at Vox, but I I stuck at Vox. When I
when I jumped ship and went independent
in 2019, I called them up and I was
like, "Hey, I'm free now. Like, I I
don't want to come work full-time, but
like let's do a project together." And
so together with um Adam Ellik who's the
head of opinion video at the times we
developed a format that's kind of Johnny
the curious explainer journalist
taps into the deep knowledge of one of
the times like veteran reporters
you know um like Nick Kristoff or Bignya
Applebomb these people who have been
reporting on on one topic for 30 years
and I become the translator of helping
their story be turned into you know, a
visual explanation. And that's been a
really cool format. We've done three
videos now. One of them won an Emmy, um,
the one I did with Bignya about, um,
liberal hypocrisy, kind of looking at
some of these blue states and and
scrutinizing some of the policies there.
And, um, it was not much different than
what I normally do. I I approached it
with the same curiosity, the same desire
to have really nice visual anchors. The
difference is that the rigor and the
expertise of Beignya Applebomb, this
veteran reporter, helped really, I
think, elevate the rigor. [snorts] Um,
and it had the New York Times on it. I
think that's actually the biggest
difference. I I I frankly think like the
the things like the Emmys and a lot of
these old institutions still see those
names, those brand names as the
gatekeepers of good journalism. I don't
think that that piece is frankly any
more rigorous than what we do on the
channel under the Johnny Harris name,
but because it had that stamp of the New
York Times and it had, you know, BA
again like as a as an expert, I think it
it caught the eye of of the Emmys and we
won. And when I got up on stage, um, the
first thing I said is I'm a YouTuber.
You know, I wanted people to know that
like I'm not of this world, but I
respect this world. There's a lot to
learn from this world of sort of legacy
TV and doc, but I'm in a new world with
a different language and a different set
of of of norms. And I'm proud of that. I
I think a lot of people still have a
condescending like kind of tone towards
YouTubers. That's changing very quickly.
And I hope stuff like this moves that
forward.
Yeah. Do you have advice for YouTubers
who want to pitch or work with
traditional media or big publications
that can't quite get in the door?
Yeah, I would say defining your own
voice first is key. Um, these
institutions I deeply appreciate they
they are very rigorous that I it's a
shame that they are struggling. A lot of
these institutions are struggling to um
evolve into this new world. Um, but it's
hard. One of the reasons they're
struggling is it's hard to develop that
voice inside of the institution, which
is one thing that was so great about
Vox. Vox was a an institution, but it
allowed me to develop my own voice. It's
hard to do that in a in a 100-year-old
news outlet. So, I would say if you want
to get in the door, develop your own
voice in the wild west of the internet,
and then come and pitch them your style
and your approach.
Um, that's going to be much more
compelling than coming in with just an
idea.
Yeah. Um, so yeah, I think it I really
think the incubator for the next sort of
cohort of journalists is going to be on
the front lines of of YouTube.
You mentioned a lot about what you
learned at Vox and any other lessons
from your time there. Any advice for
people who are trying to prepare before
they take a jump to become a creator? I
feel like so much what you did there has
prepared you for what you're doing now.
Absolutely. Vox was an incubator for me
to learn the craft of journalism in an
environment that really celebrated
individual voices
and and I thrived in that environment. I
think one thing that is my advice though
is what happened before box. Um, I moved
out to DC with an international
relations degree and a deep interest in
animation and film, but not a lot of
contacts and not a lot of like
direction. And so, my first couple of
jobs were just at jobs that had nothing
to do with international affairs, but
they allowed me to get my hands on the
tools every day and refine my craft as
an animator and as a storyteller. and
they weren't sexy jobs, but they got me
good at what I ended up doing later. So,
I wouldn't have had my job at Vox had I
not spent a couple of years just getting
good at the craft.
And I think that that's step number one.
A lot of people, their first impulse is
to go to school. Say like, I want to
learn this. I'm going to go to school.
My advice is instead of that, go find a
job that allows you to get reps. Whether
it's writing, you know, articles or
whether it's animating or editing or
filming or whatever it is, me shooting
weddings on weekends and working as an
animator at some government agency was
actually that was my schooling. That's
where I learned it and then I was ready
when Vox was born. So that's actually a
much easier approach and you get paid to
do it, you know, like do do the job
that's going to give you the reps and
pay you to do it.
Yeah. And I think one other thing I saw
you did because maybe getting a job may
be overwhelming for some people. It's
like you could create your own
opportunity by cold cold emailing an
organ. I saw you did this earlier.
Absolutely.
Cold emails an organization like hey
this video made I mean this is not your
but it's like it sucks like like here
here's a few ways I can make it better.
Can I redo this video for you? That must
have given you a lot more reps too.
Absolutely. That that idea of committing
yourself to a project that you're not
quite ready for but that you're going to
do for somebody.
Um I call this excited accountability.
It's this idea that you're now
accountable to somebody, but you're kind
of excited because you get to do the
thing that you like. You might be doing
it for free, but now it sort of levels
you up in a way that like I'm going to
work on a passion project on the side
and there's no one I'm standing
accountable to to. And I see this a lot
with artists who want to just sort of
cultivate something on the side and they
do it for years, but they don't have a
deliverable and a deadline and any kind
of scrutiny. the idea of forcing
yourself to turn stuff in, turn stuff
in, turn stuff in. That's how you close
that gap between like where you want to
be and where you are. And I did that
over and over and over again. It wasn't
fun and I wasn't sure where it was
going. But it's like it's that was my
boot camp and I everything that happened
after is a result of those reps.
Yeah. Yeah. I think that I look at it
the same way. I think the most powerful
forces in learning are having a deadline
and having an audience.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Absolutely. And and sometimes those can
be the same thing eventually, but at
first the audience could just be for me
it was like the state department. I was
like, "Let me remake your video." And
they were like, "Sure, remake my video
for free." You know, and that was my
audience. That was my deadline. I didn't
get paid anything. But I did it and I
learned a lot. Another thing you do that
quote unquote normal journalists um
don't do as much is I I feel like the
way you write
is very different. You had this quote
that really stuck out to me. Um you said
that good writing is rare and beautiful.
The difference between someone really
connecting and not connecting with the
story is just a few words.
I bought a book that you said was one of
your favorite books.
Um, and I read it, Sense of Style by
Steven Pinker.
This cartoon stood out.
Uh, maybe you could just describe what's
going on here real quick.
There's this um this amazing moment uh,
Good Start needs more gibberish. This
idea of like the authority coming in and
being like,
"This is great what you're writing, but
it's too simple. It needs more words
that signals that it's rigorous.
I feel like that is one of the curses of
communication today is that people who
are communicating about serious topics
feel like in order for it to be taken
seriously, it needs to contain highbrow
conceptual language.
And
and and ironically, that is the language
that feels good for the writer, the
communicator. feels good to write big
words.
Um, but it doesn't actually serve the
audience. And the way that my old boss
Ezra Klein, who started Vox, used to say
is he used to talk about it as
traditional journalism and academia and
legal and all these types of like
professions are often communicating for
their peers. They're not communicating
for their audience. They want the the
journalist at the other news outlet to
to take you seriously. And I believe
that the audience doesn't want that.
They don't need that. They want rigor.
They want to be taken seriously in terms
of like, you know, leveling with with
the kind of intelligence of the viewer.
But they don't need the conceptual words
most of the time. Good writing is often
visual. It's often plain. It's often
very clear and it's often concrete. A
lot of our language can be kind of
blobby and conceptual. I believe in
making stuff concrete, stuff that you
can see. I often talk to my writers or
research producers and I say who did
what to whom.
Like they'll say like oh the sanctions
like we have sanctions and sanctions
sanctions and I'm like but who did what
to whom? And sanctions is the best
example of this because I didn't even
know what sanctions really meant until
like I was done with grad school in
international relations.
I finally was like what are sanctions?
Sanctions are when the government makes
a list of all the people that can't
travel somewhere or can't sell things.
That's what it is. It's just a list. M
and the moment I saw, oh, they put the
name on the list, that unlocked it for
me. And that's what I tell the audience
instead of hiding behind the concepts.
Yeah, I was talking to MKBHD about this
as well as Cleo and I referenced a study
from JL to where the grade level of the
writing and the speaking, a lot of top
YouTubers are around fifth to 8th grade
reading level. And I I think like people
say, oh, it may be dumbing it down, but
I think it's distilling. Yeah. you know,
and I think honestly like the word
journalist may be intimidating for a lot
of creators and YouTubers. So, I'm
wondering, do you have any tips for a
creator who may not consider themselves
a writer to get better at writing before
they turn on the camera? If it's bullet
point, script, whatever it may be.
Totally. I think step number one is
seeking deep understanding. That's step
number one is I think a lot of people
get to an 80% level of understanding a
concept or an idea and they feel content
because they can regurgitate the words.
And our education system kind of trains
us in this way. Learn the concepts so
that you can say the right things at the
right time to perform on this test and
you'll get an A.
And what it doesn't incentivize is a
deep in your bones understanding of this
thing. And I think for me, I came from I
had a really hard time in school because
I I couldn't really do that. I couldn't
really just sort of memorize the
concepts. I wanted a deep understanding.
If I didn't have it, it wouldn't sort of
sink in. And so, a lot of what I do for
writing is I seek a deep understanding
and then I communicate it back to myself
before I understood it. I'm really
trying to empathize with my earlier
self. And there's this moment in every
piece when I can tell I'm starting to
develop that curse of knowledge. I now
understand it and it's going to be
really hard for me to explain it. And
so, right as I'm on that threshold, I
actually take a moment to write down
what it felt like to not understand it.
What was I curious about? What did I not
understand about this topic? And then I
make sure that as I'm writing my script,
I'm in touch with that person because
that's the audience.
That's the audience. that empathy for
that person who doesn't fully understand
this kind of difficult topic is my
audience and it was me just a while ago
and and that kind of empathy is is is I
think really important more than the
actual words and the style and the
grammar it is a deep understanding of
what it's like to not understand and a
deep desire for that audience to
understand and it's it's a very delicate
craft but to me it's the it's as it's
more important than animation and video
editing and music and all the other
things we who it's that subtle
communication style.
Yeah. I mean, we do the same thing on
our team, whether it's a topic for a
video or for a newsletter. If somebody's
pitching, we're like, "Okay, send me a
voice note first."
Yeah.
Just just explain it back in a voice
note like you would to me as as a friend
or I try to do the same with them. We're
like, "What's our oneline take?" Just a
simple Yeah. And a and a headline can
sometimes do this.
We've started really pushing pitches
that have a headline first. If you can
distill it down into what the promise of
the piece is and what you're promising
you're going to explain into a headline
and even a thumbnail,
not only is that better for preparing
for the platform that we publish on, but
it's also an exercise in disciplining
yourself to say what am I actually
saying here instead of hiding behind a
bunch of bullet points. That that's
that's the easier choice. But a real
distillation c can be summarized in very
few words. Yeah, that's a perfect
transition because your team uh was kind
enough to give me a doc for one of your
videos, the problem with Elon Musk,
which I think has three million views
now. I Okay, I was already impressed
with the video, but this doc is 188
pages long. Is that first of all, before
we talk about it, is that normal?
Yeah.
For for you do weekly videos and 188
pages of research going into them.
Yeah. Yeah. We I mean it's it's eight
weeks of non-stop reporting, sometimes
more. and I want every stone unturned.
Um, and this is doesn't include the fact
that like I read a couple biographies of
Musk. I listened to them while my
research producer was also doing their
research. Like I want to come to the
table with every stone unturned and that
just takes there's no shortcutting that
unfortunately.
Yeah. Talk me through we'll show this on
screen. What what are we looking at
here? What goes into the doc? Um, and I
also have the template of like what goes
into every video, but I thought it'd be
helpful just to get specific and talk
about one.
A YouTube video is a lot of things. It's
obviously the body of of a story, but
it's also packaging. It's also um a
description. It's also, you know, a lot
of copy and marketing. So, a lot of this
stuff is just what are we saying to our
patrons? What do we what are our
keywords for SEO?
This is done ahead of time.
This is done throughout throughout the
process. Sometimes if if we have our
titles kind of very clear, we'll do a
lot of that beforehand, but we'll we'll
do 10 different titles that we think
this has. We'll do thumbnail direction.
Sometimes that's not fully baked because
we don't have the concept, you know,
baked before um all the research. So, a
lot of this is just prep and kind of
video information.
How many people typically work on a
video? On average,
it could be anywhere from like four to
like 10 if it's a field video and
there's local producers or local
cinematographers that help out. Um but
baseline inhouse it's like maybe four to
six people between all all steps not to
mention operations etc.
And I want to dig into like how you've
hired scale like we'll bring in is here
your business
partner that's a whole the operations
other magic that I I benefit from but do
not drive.
Art ingredients is a key one. Art
ingredients which is which is a little
leaner for this one because it wasn't as
visually diverse. This was a
straightforward visual story because it
was a lot of talking head.
But normally art ingredients is every
aspect of the video as I'm writing I am
putting inspiration reference frames.
I'm putting um screenshots and screen
recordings of like inspiration that I
want to go into the animation style. One
of the inefficient but lovely things
that we do is that we make a a new art
direction for every video.
Oh yeah. Because I also saw your team
gave um another doc of like the I think
it was the Japanese islands video. It
had a ton of visual reference but I was
like there's no uh you guys almost come
up with a new mood board.
A new mood board for every single video
which is I don't recommend but I love
it. I like it's so fun because for me as
a creative visual storyteller I want
every video to be a new vision
and like it's laborious but I think it
creates an eclectic catalog of of
stories that that people appreciate. So
for every video we have this art
ingredients that kind of has how we
treat archive, what the map's going to
look like, what our typography is going
to look like and we have a amazing
visual producer who helps sort of bring
all of that together. Um, and then the
on cam, what's the set going to look
like? How are we going to light it?
What's the background? Do we have, you
know, practical props, etc.?
Oh, wow. So, even like even though
you're doing the talking head, like
speaking of camera set every time,
like that has to do with the style of
Totally. If you see Elon Musk, it's got
kind of a cooler tone. It's sort of
inspired by like the minimal branding of
X, like the Elon takeover, and it's kind
of got this like cooler thing, which is
very different than our like cozy map
style. like you'll see a very subtle but
intentional art direction that pervades
the entire video. Again, don't recommend
it, but I love it. It's so fun for me to
be like, "Every single video is a new
adventure."
Um, we'll get right back to it, but
first I want to thank our sponsor,
Nvidia AI. You might have heard about
them already, but they just gave me
early access to their new Invido AI V3,
and it's pretty amazing what it could
do. The biggest change is that they've
added a brand new generative video
engine. And with a single prompt, you
can create some amazing videos like this
Breaking Bad trailer in the style of the
Lego movie. Literally with a single
prompt. Or make me a video about the 10
most incredible wonders of India and its
history. Or you could ask it to make me
a 30-se secondond video about how the
hangover movie would look like in the
style of Lord of the Rings. Just giving
you a few ideas to show how far this
tool can go. And beyond just generating
single clips, Nvidia AI can generate the
entire video itself. I'm talking about
B-roll, music, voice over, subtitles,
all edited and ready to post. And you
could prompt Invido with a finalized
script or give it a few bullet points.
You can even train an AI voice on
yourself so it sounds like you narrated
the video. Plus, Nvidia AI has support
for over 10 languages so you can
translate your content for a global
audience. To be one of the first to
access Nvidia AI V3, head to this link
below or click the link in the
description or use this code to get
twice the amount of free credits for
Nvidia V2, which is currently out. All
right, now back to the video. So, like
when I'm writing, I'm writing in in one
column and I'm directing in another
column. And that direction has a has a
specific color code for animation. It's
purple. And so I actually have macros
where I if I want to direct an
animation, I will hit a hotkey and it
will reformat to purple and I'll start
writing like when I'm writing a script
and this is what you dive into into this
two column script. I am coding
effectively. Yes, I'm saying words, but
then in the right column I'm coding we
need archive of Musk as an 8-year-old.
We need archive of Musk doing da da da
da da. We need um a logo of SpaceX that
composits with this thing and I'm
putting that in a different color. We
need a studio shot which I put in a
different color of this. So the script
turns into this rainbow of colors that
is the kind of marching orders for
everyone on the team. And it's also me
editing. I don't edit anymore.
This is my editing in animation. I'm
able to do it in words with hyper
specific direction
which is what you see. Um so that's what
the script is. It's it's a lot of very
very clear um direction and and specific
archive that we're going to use and
things like that.
And and take me to the front of this
script for the Elon Musk video. Like how
did you choose which visual anchors were
the visual hooks that you put in the
beginning?
Yeah. So with this one, a lot of the the
sort of visual anchors for this one
because it is a biography commentary on
this guy
are moments with him, moments of him
saying something. um sound bites
basically. So there's this moment uh it
was a composite between two different
podcasts or conversations, one with Lex
Freeman and one with a New York Times
interview
where um he says, "My mind is a is a
storm. My mind is a storm." And it's
this really mo like sort of
introspective moment where he's like no
matter what you feel about Musk he here
he is turning inward having this kind of
emotional moment and then and then that
the question is is it a happy storm and
he says no and he says I don't think
people would want to live inside my
mind.
Uh I mean my mind is a storm. I don't
think most people would want to be me.
They may think they would want to be me
but they don't. They don't know.
Is your storm a happy storm?
No.
And it's like and like that that moment
honestly it made and I even feel it
right now like that that's a compelling
moment where it's like here's this
divisive guy but we're going to put that
aside for a second and no matter what
you think of him you can hear that
moment and be like oh there's something
more going on inside this guy's mind.
And and I wanted to use that as my first
visual anchor or hook in this case to to
signal to the viewer, hey, I'm going to
do something nuanced here. I'm not doing
a piece of propaganda for one side or
the other. I'm going to give the full
story
and it's a 40-minute video. So, I really
needed something juicy up front. And we
went we went through probably 10
different sound bites
on what we were going to put. And we
decided on that one because it it really
had the flavor that I I felt was like
compelling. I think not enough is said
about picking the right clips to put
into the beginning of your video because
I mean like to be a journalist and to go
out into the field can get intimidating
but to go through a bunch of source
material and then piece together the
best stuff. I mean you do a great the
other creators like like Dodford I don't
know if you've seen his stuff he's an
amazing documentary creator. He pieces
together different interviews like in in
the same style that you mentioned for
the Elon Musk video. It's just I don't
know. I find with YouTube being such a
um just I don't know one of the best
ways to find inspiration, you could do
that more than ever.
And and I'll say this is different than
my normal style. This is more
documentary style of like let the
subject talk. What I usually do for a
visual hook is I say, "Look at this
thing."
And that's a really I say like, "Look at
this fence. Look at this border zone.
Look at this graph." And that's a way to
bring someone into a visual where I'm
with my voice over kind of guiding them
through a visual anchor.
Having the visual anchor be like a a
quote from a subject is is more
traditional documentary something I want
to do more of. Um but I would say that
I'm usually engineering those with with
voice over.
Yeah.
So the script is divided into two
columns. The left column is all the
words that I'm going to say, all the
words you're going to hear, which to me
is like an important part, but the right
column is where the magic happens. The
right column is all of the visuals that
you're going to see. And I really try to
keep the left colum I try to keep them
very short little sentences. Here's a
sentence and what's the visual that
we're going to show during this one
sentence. The next sentence, what's the
visual? And when I'm writing, I'm in
both. I'm going back and forth and back
and forth because it's this discipline
of I'm not going to say something unless
I have a visual that can dance with what
I'm saying
because that's where the the video
format becomes so much more immersive
and and people want to stick around.
Yeah.
So throughout this whole thing I'm I'm
laboring over I even will put in the mu
you know music cues. I'll say after I
say this line a music cue happens it's
this kind of music. We have an in-house
composer. We work on those music cues on
on paper before it even goes into the
edit. Um, and it's effectively the edit
that I can visualize on paper before it
ever gets filmed.
How do you think about sound design and
music? Because I think the way you bring
it in is just it amplifies like what
you're talking about. How do you think
about that?
So, it's a incredibly important
ingredient uh for me. Um, it always has
been back before I had a composer. Um, I
would just listen and listen and listen
to any of the sound banks that I had
access to while I was writing and I
would try to feel out the tone. I think
of music as two main buckets. One is
thinky music. It is more cerebral. It's
more we're we're we're in a [music]
explainer mode. And then I think of
feely music. Thinky and feely. And
there's a lot of like subcategories
within that that if you look at our
music sort of backend catalog, it's got
all these weird words. What are some of
the subcategories?
Like we'll be like we'll have like effed
up like effed up twisted vibes and then
it's like um we have like Putin vibes is
one actually where it's like if we're
talking about Vladimir Putin there's
like a very specific tone. Um and then
it's like we have like uh grand epic
journey or something. Um we have drum
solo energy which is a big one where
it's like it's if it's just kind of like
neutral music and it's just really
percussive. I like to edit against
drums. I'm a drummer. That's that's my
instrument. And so, like, I love to edit
against good percussion. And so, we have
a ton of just really nice percussion.
And and my composer Tom is also a
drummer. And so, we just like nerd out
about like rhythmic stuff. So, there's
just music to me and I try to I try to,
you know, sweet and salty. I try to like
bring I try to do feely music for a
little bit and then it goes into thinky
and I write with that tone. and I say,
"We've been four minutes into this
thinky section. Let's get to a more
emotional moment
and then let's get back to it." And that
kind of eb and flow um helps structure
the piece for me and helps sort of give
people a pallet cleanser between
sections.
Yeah. I think categorizing music before
you need it is so important.
Oh my god.
And we do it for our intros too, you
know, like thinking about like, okay, is
this going to be more of a suspenseful
thing or a more light-hearted thing? And
the music selection for that is totally
different.
Yeah. It's so important. We have we use
a platform called Disco where Tom will
upload all of his music. We have maybe
2500 or even 3,000 tracks now and
they're all metadata tagged. They're all
keyworded and and in uh playlists and
I'll just listen to that stuff as as I
write because it is it's sort of my
guide for tone.
Do you find that you match feeling music
with visual anchors and thinking music
with um like you speaking to camera? Um,
I would say it's close to that. I would
say visual anchors in the field that
have human moments are often much more
feelely. And I feel like feely music is
dangerous. It's like a drug and I don't
want to abuse it because you can easily
layer on this like cinematic string
symphony thing that really pulls at your
heartstrings. But if you haven't earned
it,
it then is tacky and bad and it's like
that's our cardinal sin. So, I always
say we've earned a really big feely
moment here because we've set up the
context of this conflict and this war
and now we're talking about the people.
Now, we can actually layer on a feely
moment and it won't be abusive. It'll be
actually like proper and appropriate.
So, we've earned it.
So, I I'm It's very much like a human
moment moment that like you actually
should be feeling. And then it's for
thinking music, it's actually it's not
really on camera. It's much more um when
I'm explaining something that's more
conceptual.
If I'm doing a you know a quick history
of something or if I'm explaining the
mechanics of how international law works
or something like that that's that's
less human and more cerebral. There'll
be kind of like some like MIMA music
that's like much more uh thinky and
neutral. Um and and then there's you
know a spectrum between them. It's much
more intuitive than just those two
buckets. But like I do want to make sure
that I'm never using music in a heavy
way that is overdone.
Yeah. I think how you match it is so
important. Um I also want to talk about
your creative process for shorts. I have
a script for a few of your shorts that
you recently put out. I I was really
amazed that you're scripting out shorts
along with the main video, like the long
form video. Um what's the process of
creating a Johnny Harris short? So, one
of our approaches is, hey, we've just
done 180 pages of research.
Let's turn that into a short and we'll
leverage some of the visuals from the
video and that's what you see in the
scripts. And that's much more finding
one nugget of the video
and trying to use the visual from that
and then just writing a really paired
down version.
I think the better version of our shorts
are concepts that were built for shorts.
And this is sort of new thinking again.
We're sort of on in this new wild west
of what is short form for for our style.
And it's I think having a key visual or
a visual anchor that that that's the
whole vid. That's the whole short 30
seconds on just this one thing. I think
Cleo does this really well. Cleo Abram
is someone who's who's very fluent in
the shorts format and will find a cool
animated thing that maybe she was for
another video, but she'll write an
entire custom short that really
celebrates that one visual
and and serves the audience in that way.
So, we're still figuring this out, but I
think that a good short form is is the
same concept, a visual anchor. It's one
thing that you can look at and
understand and that's it. You're not
trying to pack in a whole micro story,
which that was our original thinking.
Just summarize the story. I don't think
that works. I think it's one thing.
Teach them one thing and then they're
going to swipe and move on to something
else.
Yeah. Yeah. During my interview with
Cleo, she talked about you use the word
visual anchors. She uses key visuals.
Yeah. Same thing. are similar, but I
think being able to like ask yourself,
am I saying take a look at this? Or if
you're in a conversation or
brainstorming meeting and you pull out
your phones like, hey, did you see this?
Absolutely.
Th those are good tests to make a short.
And if there's enough, correct me if I'm
wrong, that's a good test to make a long
form.
Absolutely. Yeah. If you have a few of
those anchors that you can stitch
together, then then you have an arc that
you can start to tell a story around.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, so I want to ask how you
do this process week over week over week
and for that I want to bring in uh is is
Harris uh your business partner, your
wife uh your mastermind. So is if you
want to come on in. All right is I'm so
excited to have you here.
Yeah, thanks for having me. I'm excited
about it too. It's been a been a while
since I've been on a podcast. I
want to bring it back to you guys in
this story that I heard when you bought
your first camera.
Come on. Wow.
You did your research
you did your research here. Yeah. of did
you guys sell your blood to buy your
first camera?
Yeah. Some context is needed. Some
context.
So it was we were in college. We were
married way young in our early early
20s.
Yeah.
And we were we wanted to become wedding
photographers
and so we bought a Canon 7D on eBay.
Yeah. This was before we were even
considering video which Johnny had years
of experience.
Yeah. But I I wanted to get into
photography. So, I bought a Canon 7D
which also could shoot video
and it was like the DSLR revolution was
happening and we didn't have the money.
Like we were like poor college kids.
No, we bought it on a credit card.
We bought it on a credit card and in our
college town,
this isn't the only time we've done
something.
We've done a thousand versions of this,
but in our college town there was a
plasma donation center and you would go
and get I think
$30. You could get $30 and
if you do both arms you could do 45.
That's what it was. And so we get 90
bucks between us.
Go once a week. And we went once a week.
At this point, I didn't know I had an
autoimmune condition. It's not that
serious. It's hypothyroid. But like, you
should not have been selling.
I It was so bad for me. Um
but we got our $90 and we paid the
credit card off and we paid it off. Uh
but we had our Canon 7D and we learned
how to shoot with it. And it it was a
couple years later where we were like
again laying in bed and I think he was
like looking through photos and I was
like
we're a lot better at video
and I was saying you really I was like
we're going to stop this photography
thing. We're just okay at that. And he
was like yeah and then it
and then it really became video. But
that that story is symbolic and it's so
familiar to me now because over the 14
years we've been married
we have done that over and over and over
again. We've put the car before the
horse. We're trying to stop. We're like
this year we're like, "Okay, we've done
it. Like, now let's just cruise on
this." But we like to put the cart
before the horse, do something kind of
reckless. And then again, it's that it's
that excited accountability. Force
ourselves to level up by putting
[clears throat] ourselves in a situation
that's like, "Oh, we have to deliver
now." And we kind of get a buzz off.
I still use this. I'll say like, "Get
I'll get back to you Monday with a full
proposal, you know, and I'm like, "How
the [__] am I going to do that?" And
then I do because I have to. I think
that like it's but we've done it on a
grand scale and it's been messy. You can
I mean if you spoke to like our families
they'd say like stop
these people are crazy.
Yeah.
Um I want to talk about the business of
journalism and and really YouTube in
general. How do you guys think about
brand deals and the content that you
create um especially because it's news?
That's a hard one. We um you know like
news has been funded for a good long
while are funded largely by advertisers
whether those be the little skip this ad
you know on YouTube unless you have
premium um or a sponsor. What is most
important is that we can ethically get
on board with that sponsor and our
audience can as well.
That's a continual conversation.
We make mistakes, things come to light,
we shift away. Um, but we try really
hard to vet who we're working with. The
second thing that's crucial, and our
agents really manage this very well, is
that they have no editorial feedback on
the crux of the piece and anything
that's said in the piece outside of
those 60 seconds. So, any sponsor can
give feedback to you missed this talking
point or you said it incorrectly. That's
not what we do. Um, but they can't say
anything about, you know, what we say
about Elon.
Do you I was surprised to see this video
and you guys commenting on it. this um
the video you made about China and it
was a creator who called out you know
World Economic Forum was a sponsor on
that video.
How do you think about sponsors that
like can also give you material to use
in the video because I believe there's
some things they gave for that video.
Absolutely. Like what what's the line
there? And I also have to ask like
commenting on a video about you is a
whole another
Yeah. Yeah. That's a whole other can of
worms and and we've learned a lot since
this you know three or four years ago.
Um, I
did this video with the World Economic
Forum with the intent of like, oh, they
have really good research on this thing.
I'm going to do that. They have budget
to sponsor the video. Now, all these
years later, I see that that's a
conflict that just like from a from a
ethical perspective, that's a conflict
that I wouldn't do today. And um, they
didn't have any say editorially. I I
wrote my video, but the fact that they
were giving me money,
you know, I I
He wrote his video, but then it did get
uploaded to their like the script of it
to their blog,
so it looked like they had wrote the
piece.
Totally. So, there was some optics
green.
There was just like some like novice
errors that we made from an optics
perspective. But even still, I think the
idea of covering the research of an
organization that's also giving you
money, unless it's like the Red Cross,
but even then I would need to to look at
it and especially the World Economic
Forum where there's a lot of like very
valid critique. Um, it caused an issue
and um I felt good about the story. I
think the story holds water
journalistically. I think the the way I
went about funding it I wouldn't do
today. Um, and and the critique of it
came with a lot of editorializing that
wasn't accurate, but the fact that I
crossed that line to begin with is on me
and I take responsibility for it.
There's a lot of versions of that that
happened that aren't actually good faith
critique and I don't entertain those,
but this was a learning experience.
We've had a few other learning
experiences and it's a line that we're
always crossing. We're on the front
lines of a new type of journalism. we
have to build a business around it.
We're doing it in this kind of like
influencer economy. So, we're having to
retrofit that into this very important
thing called objective journalism that
is not bought or sold by a corporation.
How do we do that? And we're sort of
learning and defining that. And when I
go speak to journalism conferences and
talk to journalism schools, that's like
the number one question because the
ethics
there's a lot of fear around it
are really really sensitive.
Yeah. So needless or I guess needed to
say there would never be a sponsor on
any of our channels that would be the
supplier of the information that we're
reporting on or would be like have a
strong investment in some direction um
with where we'd lean
and they wouldn't touch it you know so
all of those things are the safeguards
is there a partnership that you said no
to because it would have been a conflict
of interest
a lot of governmental like you know
Dubai wants me to come cover like the
museum on the future or something and I
cover politics in the in the Middle East
and UAE I'm often critical of and if I
take a lot of money from the tourism
board of Dubai then suddenly
governments are a hard no even their
tourism boards. So you could see how
that could be maybe a gray area.
We just don't want there to be anything
that undermines the journalism that
we're doing. That used to be
where we made our money when we were
doing more travel vlogging. It's
definitely where I made my money was
tourism boards. um very very different
when we when I can't just say the skiing
was lovely and it truly was. You know,
like I need to say like there's some
corrupt corrupt [__] going on here, you
know? That's a different thing and we
don't want that funding to get in the
way of that.
So, it's it is case by case in some
ways. Um I think what gets trickier is
uh foundations. you know, we haven't
really we're trying to expand from just
corporations to like foundations, Bill
and Melinda Gates, and those often comes
with certain strings attached that are
like ethically I'm on board with, you
know, fighting for maternal health or
something. I and so knowing where those
lines are when we if and when we take
money from from like grants is another
sort of gray area that we are going to
have to define. And we may make
mistakes. I hope we don't. We have
pretty firm lines. We want to do good
journalism. We're earnest in that. But
we're also defining a brand new category
of news and journalism and that comes
with an exploration of this.
We're also people. Like I do think
sometimes that gets forgotten. That
doesn't mean we're not responsible and
it doesn't mean we shouldn't have the
resources to like figure these things
out and really think hard before we do
them. But we are like fallible. There
are just errors that happen on our time
that are truly unintentional. I think
owning up to those if and when they
happen and then disclosure, always
disclosing who is funding the piece, who
comped travel if that was the case. That
should just be baseline across the board
probably on the platform period, but
especially in journalism.
Yeah. I mean, you're also a business. I
I can only imagine with all the people
you're hiring like your over like if you
had to estimate what's what's a monthly
overhead for
um well over $100,000. Yeah. It's
a month.
Yeah. of just like fixed costs and like
we have to make payroll. So that that
incentive is always there
if he wants to do a field story it just
Yeah. Exactly. Yeah.
What's the cost of a field story?
40 to 50,000
depending on how if we bring the crew or
whatever. If I go solo it's a little
different. But I think one of the
important things of having is as a
partner really side by side as opposed
to a traditional like I'm the YouTuber
and I'm the CEO is that there is kind of
a garden wall where actually I don't
know I didn't know that number like I I
can kind of have this garden wall in a
like like in a traditional where there's
a newsroom in the business side those
incentives are still there but I can be
in this space of trying to pursue the
story
and is can be
that you know any creator that works
with us and for us can know whatever
they want to know.
I'm available. But when I was creating,
it wasn't helpful if a brand came back
and gave me like really specific like
revenue like information. Though now I
would love to have it. It was really
discouraging and I didn't want to make
again. It just made me anxious. And so I
try to be careful about having a team
that helps me make those calls and take
in that information and then where it's
applicable and useful, reporting that
back to the journalists we're working
with.
Yeah. I mean, you've been a successful
producer at Eater, you know, you've had
your own uh travel vlog channel, your
own successful wedding videography
business. Yeah.
What would you say for people who can't
find their is um or you know it's now
become more common like uh husband and
wife duos building creator businesses
you know uh Matt and Stephanie Patrick
um uh Michelle Curry Gary Kenno my my
wife is my uh COO Amanda like what what
would you say for people who aren't
married to the business part? How do you
find someone to yeah do this? That's a
tough one.
I mean I'd first say I'm so sorry.
[laughter] That's the worst. Um, it's a
really hard one to answer, I think. Um,
don't be fooled. It is a marriage. You
need to implicitly trust that person
financially. You need to trust them in
some capacity editorially. Whether
that's that they are not going to have
influence and they understand it's not a
creative role and that needs to be very
explicit or um that you genuinely have
trust in how they think about creative
or that they will approach it with
humility to learn how you think about
creative. what I was doing was very very
different than what I'm doing now. And
um I'm fully comfortable admitting that
it's taken months and months and months
and months of studying and learning to
be able to speak the language that
Johnny does so well on his channel and I
don't want to dilute that. I want to add
to it. Right? So you need someone who
can, you know, meet you there wherever
that may be. Um and then energetically
like you they need to energize you. I I
can't remember who said this, but it it
was it really caught me like I don't
know off guard the idea that the people
that work for you and that you work with
that you should feel that surge of
energy from them and that like synergy
and I like that you know it's I guess
it's putting to words what I've felt
with some of my team members and
especially my senior team members. Um,
so you need to have that.
Also, you got to be like, and this is to
all the creatives who are control
freaks, like you have to be willing to
say what you don't do well. And it's a
lot. You don't do so so much well. I
don't do so much well and I'm a CEO and
a lot of the stuff I don't do well as
CEO stuff that I'm then hiring out. You
know, I shouldn't be doing our quarterly
financial reports. That would be a [__]
show, you know, and like that's okay.
I'm really good at taking them once
they're in a pigraph and going like,
"Oh, okay. That makes sense. let's
distribute funds this way. Um, so really
being able to say like, I'm not good at
managing people. Maybe that's the case.
I'm not good at growing people. I'm not
good at really conveying vision. I feel
it, but I don't know how to do it. I'm
not good at hiring. I'm not good at
firing. Like, whatever it is, you have
to be really willing to look in the
mirror and be real about it. And then
trust whoever just trust whoever you
bring on.
Well, it's going to be different for
every creator. I think that's the other
exciting thing about this about this
renaissance that's happening is
everyone's creating their business in
their own way. This is our model. It
works. It's hard to give advice because
we are one data point. And I think that
um you know the way Cleo, who's our
close friend, who's building a very
comparable sort of type of business, the
way that she's building it, who she will
hire is very different than what I would
need or what you would need because she
has different competencies and different
tolerances for and different goals. And
so I think what you're going to see is a
lot of different services that that pop
up, outsource services from management
to financial and bookkeeping to all
these things where I think that creators
should identify what they don't do well
and then survey the market. They may not
need a right-hand person. They may
actually need a suite of outsourced
retainers. A CFO over here, a manager
over here, a whatever over here, and
then like a COO over here.
It's very flexible and I don't think
there's one size that fits all.
I also think for like I do want to say
with the outsourcing be careful like if
you end up in a situation where you feel
like they're not making it very very
clear how to work for you and like you
need to know all the things to get them
to do their job. That's a red flag and
we've run into it. Um the other thing is
it doesn't need to be a sea suite
executive that you're bringing on like
bring on an operations like an
administrator and then grow them you
know or bring on an assistant and grow
them. Bring on a production manager and
grow them. Um just find where I would
hire smaller at first until you start to
get what are the personality types that
I work well with. Um and yeah, that's
true. It's going to be different for
every single
person figuring out what you need and
what you don't need.
Yeah.
I mean, I couldn't agree with that more.
I mean, finding somebody like on
freelance who's maybe a bit more junior
and then like uh like I say to our
editors all the time, I'm like, I'm
going to put you to the gauntlet, but
we're going to make some of the best
pieces of work that hopefully will add
to your portfolio. And I feel like a lot
of people just look at like, oh, that
person has done it. That's the paycheck.
Let me get them on salary.
Yeah.
And they start burning out really quick.
They do. Yeah. And I also think like I
don't I I I keep coming back to this,
but like the power of not knowing like
that truly can be a sup like superpower.
Even in our work, I don't have a degree
in international relations, but my
ability to say like that thing you just
said about Kurdistan made no sense to
me. Helps them go back to fresh brain,
go back to the drawing board and figure
out how to explain that for the average
audience. Um same goes for running your
own business as a creative. like you
don't need to know all of the things.
You just need to bring people on that
you really trust to not like co-opt them
too much and to really share in with you
the process of establishing systems or
developing brand deals or whatever it
is.
Yeah. um when you're reaching out to
folks like to get them in your videos.
You guys shared um this like outreach
message because uh getting people to
talk on camera can be really hard
especially for different top and I think
it could be a superpower for any
YouTuber watching like thinking about
okay this is a topic I've pulled some uh
visuals but I need somebody to talk on
camera. Can you talk through like how
you guys go about reaching out to folks
to be on camera? Access is a huge visual
anchor for us in the sense that if we
can get access to the Japanese military
and I can make a video called I trained
with the Japanese military that's a
really powerful like framing for a
video. So we spent seven or eight months
in back and forth with the Japanese
military. That's probably our most
ambitious. I got access. I got to train
with the Japanese military. It was
awesome.
Most of the time you'll find that it's
not that intense. We don't have to do
this big formal thing. oftent times um
people experts want to talk and
especially if you're doing a topic that
is kind of niche and there's some
professor at some university that h you
know like doesn't talk about this very
often they will be excited to jump on
for 30 minutes. So you you'll often find
a warm room um especially if you have
work that shows how you portray those
experts and you can say like this is how
I'm planning to use it.
letting them know if it's going to be on
camera or on background is just a like
etiquette thing that I think people
forget.
These experts are busy and if they're on
camera that might appeal to them. If if
they're on camera that might not appeal
to them, but they should know.
Um this Yeah, this one's really formal
because of Japanese culture and we we
needed to approach it. It was kind of a
cool experiment in that way.
Yeah, it's a whole letter.
Yeah, it's like a big thing. There's
other ones where like we I think you
know we're reaching out about deep uh or
ocean mapping. Those are going to be a
little bit more casual. Here's what we
do. I do think being concise, we're not
always the best at that, but being
concise is respectful um to the time
that people have available.
And then what what just complicates this
and I'd like you to speak to it is like
when you're reaching out
you may not be covering them fully gener
like or you will cover them generously
but it's not going to be a puff piece.
So
that's the constant conflict with what
we do is like
I'm going to report what I find period.
So the Japanese army obviously let me do
this because they want me to show the
strength of the Japanese army. That's
why they let me in the door and gave me
a uniform and did all this stuff. Um,
and yet the piece ended up being half
an, [snorts] you know, showcase of
Japanese military might. The second half
was a big critique of how locals feel
about this. And, you know, like I wish I
could just show up and show a really
amazing piece on on the Japanese army
with no critique, but but I think what
you what I had to do and what I hope
they saw when they watched it is, oh,
this was generous.
This wasn't a gotcha. He did this
generously, but he also showed the other
side and it was balanced. And I hope
that when I I want to train with other
militaries and do a similar thing. I
hope when they watch that, they can see
that I'm good faith and earnest. And I
think people can can sniff that out and
and and see it in the work, not just in
the proposal, but in in the work that
you do, which is ultimately going to be
the decider of if they let you in the
door.
Do you ever give them a first look? Like
when you reach out to them?
No. Ethically, that's just not like I
can't have let them have any influence
unless it's classified. Like if I go
onto a submarine or something, then I
can show them the footage I want to use
and they can say, "Hey, that control
board you showed is classified. You have
to blur it out or cut it."
I will let that happen. But from an
ethics, like my promise to my viewers,
I'm going to go cover this and I'm going
to show you what I found. Period.
They see it when the audience sees it.
Yeah. They see it when the audience sees
it. Yeah. So that's just
And sometimes we won't hear back for
like a week and we're like,
"Oh man, like how are they going to feel
about it?" And especially like in this
case that's a little bit different
because we were being critical but say
like our um piece we did a piece on
misinformation and we worked with this
incredible expert who studies the brain
and how it reacts to information and
she's just so brilliant and then we just
took it and we did the hard work but
also you know the distilling and we we
made it a much simpler explanation. You
never know how an expert is going to
respond to that. Luckily, we got the
email a week later and she was like,
"Fantastic job." You know, I love how
you explained this, but that's where we
feel the pressure. Not that, you know,
they'll be like, "This shined well on
me," but like, "Did we get it right? Did
this really like this?" You're so in the
science. Did we
did we do it justice? And those are
moments that are a little tenuous and
nerve-wracking.
Uh Johnny, you once said about is uh
that you wish you could just shout to
the rooftops about the mastermind that
you really are. Tell me about like your
dayto-day is why you said that. Just I
want to get into it because there's a
lot behind that.
It's a it's a weird thing having started
the channel on my own. It was very
scrappy and solo at first and um these
days it's unrecognizable in terms of the
the amount that we publish, the depth of
our ability to report and then the
business that we run. All of that is
something that I had no competency to do
on my own. Is came into the business um
maybe a year or two after I sort of
started and she came in with just this
other vision of like what it could be.
Not just the rigor of it and the
creativity, but also the operations, the
stuff that I kind of don't want to think
about. And since then, we've built it
into this very lovely organization that
is full of great people who are unified
around a vision and that has an
efficiency to it. That is the only
reason why as a scrappy little
organization we're able to publish so
often.
So that the reason why I want to scream
it to the rooftops is because I'm the
guy on camera. I kind of have this
legacy of doing it all on my own. But
more and more uh it is this sort of
thing that I cash in on which is like
the mastermind of is and what she's
built around what I like to do.
Yeah.
Yeah. I mean that's very nice. And same
goes for the broader team. We have a
really big team and as Johnny mentioned
earlier so many of them touch these
pieces and and um I would even up the
number that you said. I think probably
anywhere from 8 to 14 people touch a
single video. And it really is this
incredible relay that we go through with
several handoffs and an enormous amount
of trust in each of the people that
touch it. And my day-to-day uh varies.
It's a lot of pento paper brainstorming
about how we can make this already
efficient system more efficient. Um
maybe an hour about talking about one
process that I'm not happy with how the
workflow went.
Like what? Like what? [snorts]
let's say um I mean we just revamped the
way that we choose stories and that was
after years of me trying to put pen to
paper to figure out what what makes a
good story and what makes a good story
for for Johnny more specifically and
more importantly and that there were a
lot of factors there one was there's so
many good ideas how many of them are
visual another was for us to tell a
story and for it to be authentic and
also good he has to care like it has to
spark his interest. Um, so I was coming
in a little bit more like how do I
almost shield him
from all of the suggestions? It's a lot
of suggestions. Even dinner with my
family, it's like 15 suggestions every
every single videos.
Oh yeah. Everyone's fishing me all the
time.
All the time. You know, it's like every
sentence and it's part of it is is fun
because we're all so creatively amped
behind what we're doing and there's
there's so many things to cover. Um, but
almost every, you know, like segment of
a conversation ends with like that could
be a video. And oftentimes they're
right. Um, but a lot of it shouldn't for
us, so that could be a video for someone
else, you know? Um, so looking at it
from both of those angles, but also from
a like
how do we without losing the heart of
what we do and also like the the very
organic value of what we do. I know
these are like trite words, but they
really matter. How do we engineer a
certain aspect of that to ensure the
video has the best chance possible of
doing well? One of those is making sure
it's visual. One of those is making sure
we have that visual hook. Um, is there
is it relevant? Is there broad interest
in this? Of course, does it spark
Johnny's interest? So I spent probably
collectively like a hundred hours
thinking about that process and just
talking and talking and talking. This is
the value. You know, some of it was
pillow talk like of being married, but
like what is it? What what drives you
crazy when a story comes and you just
can feel it's not it? Like try to try to
verbalize that. And
and these are things I can't do on my
own. Like I it's a lot of shooting from
the hip for me. It always has been. It's
always been this really kind of from the
gut feeling. As it's grown and as we've
grown a business and we have to make
payroll and we actually have to run a
proper business, it's been really hard
for me to articulate and codify my
process. And so one of the benefits of
having my life partner also be like the
business partner who also was a creator
and understands this who's also has a
business mind.
She's able to sort of coax out some of
this stuff from me and put it down into
a document in a way that I I just I'm
like I never thought of it that way.
It's just it feels a certain way in my
brain. And so it's been really nice to
have someone who gets me gets the
business and can kind of marry those
two.
Yeah. I was kind of laughing because we
have this I don't even know if this will
land but we pass this restaurant all the
time that's called tacos burritos fu and
more [snorts] and that is me like I even
when I was running my own channel I
could not narrow into a thing and so
I've loved the ability like I think one
of the most fun parts about being a CEO
and then having access to producing and
creative is that no day is the same. I
think it's actually a very similar thing
to what you love and I say often to
Johnny like I wouldn't want to sit in a
story for that long like I would I would
get bored and I would need to move on
and so um that's kind of been a
strength. Um, there's also way less sexy
things like for years the color I mean
if you go back and look like the color
correction and treatment was very
different from video to video and my
team now knows that I am like on them
like okay no that is not the color of
Johnny's lips you know like let's let's
look at his lips a little bit longer and
and um they're now used to that but
that's something that then I would meet
with our production manager Taran to
talk through like what are the workflows
that we can have in place so that I'm
not thinking about this. Why am I
leaving 15 notes on this? That sounds a
little like
bratty maybe, but it also is like
time matters and I want time to be spent
on us doing the best journalistic work
we can do. Um, and the most beautiful
both of us are filmmakers first. Um, and
so we really want to be spending our
energy there. Um, yeah. And then I think
one of the really nice things about that
because it would be a lot to do for one
person, right? [clears throat] M
um even if that person is reaching
millions of people on a weekly basis, so
many of these things, if not all of
these things, translate over to our new
channels and how we run them. And so it
almost feels like I'm doing the same
work for like way more bang for my buck.
Um which is very energizing as well.
Yeah, the words process and systems I
feel like can get so abstract,
especially for creators who are still
like doing it themselves or maybe they
have one other person. Like what does
that mean? Like is that a doc? Like for
us, it's like if we have to do something
like twice or repeat it, we try to have
like best price or templates. So, you
may have seen that we've officially
launched our new merch line and we've
been building the site on Shopify, who
sponsored this video. Not only is
Shopify the commerce platform to help
you start, grow, and manage your
business, but also makes it easy with
their drag and drop store editor,
marketing tools, and backend to oversee
your operations. And the most magical
part? Well, it's a new feature called
Shopify Magic, which is an AI tool that
helps you clean up your product photos,
change the backgrounds, write product
descriptions, and so much more. And
because we have an international
audience, I can also use Shopify's
managed markets to help handle local
payment methods, duties, tax compliance,
customs pre-clance, and all that other
stressful part that comes with
international sales. So, I could get
back to focusing on what I do best,
creating videos like these. So, if
you're thinking about launching your
idea or taking your business to the next
level, sign up below with a free trial
at shopify.com/youshi
and join many of the world's biggest
brands, entrepreneurs, and creators who
are using Shopify as well. That link
again is shopify.com/youshi
or click the link below in the
description. All right, back to the
video. Like, what is it? A checklist of
like um like this color must look like
this. Like this story must have these
like five aspect like what
in my dream world it would be. In my
dream world, I mean, I tell my team
members all the time like, carry around
a checklist. Work off of a checklist.
Like, do not trust your brain to be the
best. I don't trust my brain. You
shouldn't trust your brain. Like,
there's very, very smart ways that we
can organize ourselves to stick to the
same merits of what we're making, the
same visual, you know, cohesion and
quality. Um, just in a single production
for you, you're touching on probably a
thousand different things truly.
[clears throat] Mh.
And so how is one brain going to keep
track of that? They're not. So yes, it's
a lot of checklists. You'll notice that
at the top of our scripts, there's a
checklist for the story or research
producer um to see to the it's also, you
know, the docs that you're seeing a
pitch dock, a script. Johnny's been
incredible about setting up some of
those systems. How do I make sure that
they are accessible and used
consistently?
Um
we also have a Bible. We have a Bible.
We call it the Bible.
It's a little sacrilegious.
It's a It's all of our postp production.
It's all of our production stuff in in a
notion um database that basically is
it's almost like a like a support
document. Like you can search it. It's
by pre-production, production, and post
and animation.
So all of our map sort of color guides
and kind of best practices.
Yeah.
Are are documented there. Um, in
addition to some like writing tips and
kind of write voice, like I'll do little
tutorials where I'll screen record
myself just for the team.
Yeah, just for the team.
There's also like right now I have our
two senior video producers creating a
full new entry to the Bible. Um, that
will be um very firm definitions on what
each cut has and what they look like and
why. Yeah.
Um, I think the why is important.
Yeah. What are the different cuts that
it goes through? of shame, shame. Shame
is the first one. Hold up because it's
too shameful to show anyone. No one
wants to ever show it.
You have to because if you hold on to
it, that preciousness, it doesn't serve
the story and it doesn't serve the
audience. So that's where Johnny and I
can come in and go, "Oo, we got that
segment wrong or oh man, this music's
just not working." Or it's just really
rough.
It's paired down. It doesn't have any
visuals. It's mo just music and pacing.
Always watch them at two times speed.
Like I'm just getting a sense of like
where are we going?
um
you already recorded talking head for
that or like
so the shame draft is is basically the
scaffold of the whole thing and we
really do emphasize like it's a shame
draft because you don't want it's not a
video game editors like get too fancy
and we have to call them out and be like
a shame
um and then there's a rough and there
then there's a fine and then very
cleverly there's a fine too because we
realized we needed more time between
that and what we're going to be
publishing and then there's a pub cut
and at every single stage shame there's
a bit less
notes because it would be kind of wild
for me to or Johnny um or one of our
senior video producers to leave a
hundred, but in most every cut you're
going to get over a hundred different
Oh, I'm I'm looking at this uh frame uh
screenshot that you shared with me that
has 132 notes for 25 minutes.
Yeah.
Yeah. And that's standard.
That doesn't count. I also went into the
edit on this one because it's one I
really care about and left some specific
notes as markers. Um it and this is this
is purely us obsessing the details like
that is one of our core principles. It
is
it is one of the reasons the videos turn
out and it's one of the reasons it takes
four months to make these things
and we are both editors you know so we
speak this language to step outside of
it is not easy and also to ensure that
like the work reflects us and what we're
trying to make the 132 notes is
necessary. It can be devastating for a
new editor on the team. I won't lie. And
um I've had to really and like really
make sure that my post producers
understand and I genuinely mean this
that me leaving that me leaving 132
notes on I think this was maybe a rough
or even a fine um is a sign of respect
for that editor. I know where they can
get that. This is one of our best
editors and and he's going to make this
thing I am going to say that word. he's
going to make this thing [__] sing,
you know? And I I've seen him do it over
and over and over again. But I also know
that when you're sitting in that edit,
you don't have fresh brain perspective.
You don't know like you lose sight.
You're almost just in this like vortex.
And that vortex can make magic, but it
also can make you blind to really where
you need to go. Yeah.
So, we see this as a collaborative
effort. And um it's very important to me
unless I say this wasn't where we needed
it to be that our editors trust that it
was and we're going to get it further.
Oh, I I've never felt more seen than
than looking at cuz I leave the same
amount of notes for our editors and it's
cuz I believe in them. It's cuz we vet
them, especially as we're growing now.
We got to like, you know, it's like that
level of detail matters.
Absolutely.
Um what what what is the process of like
doing that week over week? Cuz I got to
be honest, like one thing like we
struggle with, I think a lot of other
creators struggle with is like being a
perfectionist with the edits. To see the
level of quality for your videos. Um I
mean, have you guys ever shipped
something that you felt like was not
perfect or like
always?
Always. Yeah, it's
probably every week when we publish.
Yeah,
it's there.
That's a hard question because we are
perfectionists. We could push it
forever.
I don't think we are. We're actually
quite messy kind of haphazard people in
our in our lives. like I'm more orderly
than you. That's true.
Johnny is
everywhere at all times and I love that
about him.
Um and so part of me coming in is making
sure there's systems in place that like
you can get really hyperfixated in a
beautiful way on a certain part of the
story. Let's make sure everything has
that. Yeah.
Um I think it was Cypress that we
published and we got a text from a a
colleague that like we really really
respect and she's so lovely and sends us
a lot of very kind messages as well. Um
Jos Fong who just launched a launched a
channel called Howtown and she texted
and she was like I saw you didn't get to
all of the color correction and it was
spoton. We didn't we had missed several
frames like and this is a full
documentary that we had invested
thousands of dollars to make. You know
there it really goes to like the
principle that said way too much which
is that perfection is the enemy of good
enough
the industry
another form of procrastination
I don't think you know I watch a lot of
people launch on the platform
most of them are going to be too
precious to make it and that's all it
comes down to it's not talent it's not
skill it's not smarts it's not
post-production chops it is that they
can't ship something
and so we believe in shipping often and
we believe that we'll get better. I also
am conscious as the person running the
company that the industry is changing
very quickly and for us to stay on the
forefront of journalism on the platform,
we have to be delivering products and
then improving on those. And there's
nothing better for improvement than
comments uh from people that
think you could have changed things and
then we try to do that. I would say
there's two red lines that we have to we
have to make sure we're not crossing or
there's two kind of thresholds that we
have to pass. One is factual. We need to
make sure that all of our facts are
watertight and we publish a bibliography
on all of our sources. Every assertion
is timecoded with the source to make
sure that and that keeps us honest and
and we've had issues in the past where
we we haven't held ourselves to that
standard.
This is why we built out that system.
So
that that's one factual. other that I
need the edit to get to is that sense of
bespoke
craft. It needs to have craft
and that starts to happen around fine
cut where I'm like this has craft. You
feel it. You feel the magic of the music
and the pacing. If we're there, the rest
is the cherry on top. And I do want the
sound to be mixed properly. I do want
the color correction to be good. But if
we are factoryy and and people are
feeling stuff when they're watching and
they're learning then like yeah I think
way more comfortable shipping.
I should also say like now something
wouldn't be published with color
correction issues or typos part of the
like you know systems aren't sexy but
they really do help you do the sexy
stuff more and like part of having the
systems that we have h it's allowed us
then to invest more time because we're
just more efficient. We also now have
senior senior video producers that I
referenced. They're leaving notes on
cuts and for a year they were leaving
notes that we read every single one and
we left them notes on their notes and we
said, "Oh, you missed this place. Oh,
your tone. You got to be encouraging.
You got to speak in we you got to make
the editor feel seen. They've been in
this and they're tired." You know, um we
really tried to grow them and now
particularly for certain videos that are
a bit more easily done independently.
You're talking about notes to manage
other like like editors as you
have wow we have post producers that
function as what we call SVPs senior
video producers and they now oversee
cuts not all you know we're still going
to take something like this is a field
story in Georgia like
we're going to senior video produce it
right but um they're looking at every
logistical thing that needs to happen
did the animation get done or the style
frames in do we you know is the type
face correct correct and so on, but
they're also leaving notes. They're
doing exactly that
getting it to a fine cut and then we
come in and you guys come in. Yes.
Yeah. And sometimes we don't.
And there's one there's a new and just
in the past few months there it's at the
point where we've let a video publish
where we didn't leave a single note
which was like a huge celebration. Like
it was a big moment. It was one of our
maps explainers
and it was big for them too. We're still
watching it, you know, but um yeah,
there were months and months and months
of us leaving notes on their notes,
you know, on Slack and then
to be able to do this. Yeah.
Yeah. That I mean that's so powerful.
What does a team look like now? Like org
chart different roles just like quick
highle
org chart.
Yeah. Another thing that I've put pen to
paper on for like
years,
hours and because this is something that
like when he came in I was like I want a
firm org chart and then months later I
was like we can't have one. Um we don't
have enough of a management structure in
place to like really have what I want to
see on a wall. Um I think that's part of
our strength that we've run scrappily
and we've allowed that creatively. Um
but I also want to run a real business
where people feel taken care of and
guided and like they're on the same page
with the mission. So, we have like 16
full-time employees. Two of those are
heads of content on their own channels.
Um, and then they are each staffed with
one to two people. Um, and then we have
probably 10 to 15 contractors that we're
working with. And those contractors are
people we're working with pretty much on
a weekly basis. We're in near constant
and they're editors and animators
mostly. Yeah.
Some are research producers. Yeah. Um,
and then within the company, this year
has been a big year of me, um, and I
would give this advice to anyone, uh,
taking a deep hard look at at both what
I don't want to do and what I don't do
well and then hiring for it. Taran, our
production manager, she's fantastic
about keeping everything just on, you
know, on pace and she's really good with
the team in terms of like their own time
management and overseeing that. I think
the next steps are going to be someone
who we really trust from a producer
standpoint. Yeah.
Who just shares our brain somehow.
They've got to be out there, but someone
who can come on and when they make a
call, we go whoa. Like I maybe wouldn't
have even thought of that. And that's
[__] brilliant. That would be the
dream. Um so trying to scale each of the
pods, but we have post-production, we
got pre-production, we have a
operational team. Um, and then
we outsource.
The goal is that those start to work up
a chain so that I, like I did in
January, don't have, and this is not
something to be proud of. It's not even
a humble brag. It's truly stupid. Don't
have 15 direct reports. That is no way
to run a company and it's no way to take
care of your people. So now I have less.
And my goal is that, you know, in six
months I have five.
Yeah.
And those are all senior team members.
Yeah. Yeah. And then for financial and
legal and all these things, we sort of
have outsourced
um agencies that we retain to help us
with bookkeeping and all that.
So we do what's called an outsourced
CFO. Um didn't know that existed. It
exists. It's a really cool thing. We
have our agents who help us um get
deals. Um yeah, so it's it's a lot of
different people that we're interacting
with on a weekly basis. And I asked that
because so many creators like they could
barely see beyond like hiring a few
people and like I find that burnout and
hiring go hand in hand you know if you
don't have a lot of these processes it
just
you know uh can lead to like you you
know wanting to take retirement time or
like you know you know wanting to leave
like the platform like a lot of uh you
we've seen YouTubers doing. I know you
guys have this grand mission to become
the home of the best independent video
journalism on the internet. You've said
this a few times before. How do you guys
plan on doing that? I see you're
spinning up new channels like Search
Party. All the stuff you're balancing
seems like so overwhelming already. Like
why do more and how are you going to do
that?
It came a couple years ago when we
realized we started to to scale the
production. It became so efficient once
is came in. We could publish like every
week and we were we had 17 videos in the
pipeline and we're like, let's just keep
scaling this. Too many too many. It was
too many. And we realized like you guys
have 17 videos. We did it. We had six to
10 to 13.
Yeah, we had a lot just always kind of
on simmer.
We kind of hit our ceiling to the point
where it started to like really take a
toll on like how am I keeping track of
17 videos and it was sort of touching
them in all these precision points and
we realized the the the product that we
can bottle here isn't my brain. Like I I
do it differently every time. I want a
new art direction. The thing that
actually is brilliant about this
organization is what is built. That's
what's scalable. Not to mention, we
believe we have something special. We
believe that we are approaching
journalism in a new way and we could be
a home for other journalists who are
intimidated by YouTube, intimidated by
starting their own channel, being
business operators and journalists at
the same time to bridge that gap and
facilitate a network of channels that we
can run under this sort of ethos of
efficient operation. And so that's sort
of where this idea was born of being a
network of journalistic channels all run
by a head of content, you know, a leader
of that channel who's on camera. They're
creators, but they don't have to think
about operations and bookkeeping and
deals.
They just make and they build
and they're also salaried and have
benefits like any other full-time member
of the team. So, and then there's a
generous rev share over time that scales
as the channel grows. So that's that's
the
formula that we're working with with
each of these.
So you guys are starting a network. I I
guess it's already started because
Search
We're launching our second one.
We're launching our third one.
Our third one
um in November. It will be um run by
Kristoff who has made incredible videos
at Vox including a video about Sahara
circles that is just phenomenal. His
brain is so fun. Um and he'll be
launching in November. just started and
he is like in a rabbit hole of research
on
what's the niche
on uh stories.
It's going to be open source intel. So
he's going to be scouring Google maps
and public records to dive into
different internet mysteries, current
events, but using basically a UI, an
internet UI to guide the viewer through
his methodology
and show how it's done. So the
journalism is about what he's
discovering, but it's also about how to
do the journalism, which I think is
really exciting for people who are
trying to learn.
And that's his idea. The whole concept
is that in the same way that my channel
is my brain kind of thinking out loud
and living out loud. Sam with search
party, that's his methodology. It's his
style of explanation and he's able to
lean into that. Kristoff's going to be
able to he's so good at and that that's
a belief that we have that underpins
this this network is
a creator-led journalistic brand is is
going to be the most authentic. It's
what people want as opposed to a top-
down brand that is one name and everyone
sort of follows that voice
and creatively like in the actual back
end right like how are we working
together?
We are working as collaborators. We're
story editing each other's pieces. We're
pitching to one another. We're looking
at each other's thumbnails. We're
looking at each other's cuts and we're
learning from one another. Bringing Sam
on was like, yes, fantastic for what
we're trying to grow and also it's made
us so much better. I think
my channel better.
I think the same thing is going to be
said um of bringing Kristoff on.
We see like journalism is in a
precarious state even just with like a
lot of companies that are going under, a
lot of layoffs and also the incentives
of media that we see today on network
television, right? And also people are
shifting in the way that they want to
receive news, in the way that they want
to experience news. And I think having
these topics explained to them
where we don't skip over the
foundational knowledge. We don't skip
over the um broader context. We really
try to we call it holding the viewer's
hand, but we try to hold their hand
throughout the piece so that by the end
they have not a bunch of facts, not a
bunch of dates, not a bunch of names.
That's not useful. they have a a keen
understanding of the why,
you know, and so that that is what we're
trying to scale with these creators and
I don't think it would be right for it
to be continued to like continually
scaled through one person. There's
additional perspectives and ideas and
lived experiences that we want to create
platforms for. Um, and we would love to
be the home of those.
Yeah. which is why we've changed the
name of this broad thing from by Harris
to new press. New press is the kind of
holdco of this network of channels. And
to us that sort of speaks of like the
new way of of publishing, the new way of
doing rigorous journalism in this
creator environment that we believe is
the future.
Yeah. I think it's the first time you
guys have talked about that.
Yeah, it is. Yeah. Yeah. This is sort of
this is like hot off the press. Yeah.
Yeah. And it's it's exciting because
like what got us into this is like we
like to make stuff. We're filmmakers.
We're starting to catch the glimmer of
like, oh no, this could actually be a
home that could scale that could bottle
this this ethos up and and allow other
creators to have a voice and and to have
the operations just be smooth and clean
for them so that they don't have to
think about that because it's hard.
Building a business on YouTube is hard
and and and doing journalism is hard. So
we want to take one of those off of the
plate of these journalists.
They're already grappling with
the journalism.
So it's almost like a modernday nest.
It kind of is.
You have a lot of different verticals
that that's the goal. And then uh you
bring on like a talent or a subject
matter expert. They get a salary and it
sounds like a rev share is the business
model. That's right. But then you guys
have like almost like the the main like
central operations. Yes. You share all
the stuff that you learned the Bible
under the under the hood. under the
hood, it's all the same organization
and they're they're contributing to it
as well. You know, they're shaping the
organization as we go. Um they it's a
little bit different in that it's very
creator first.
So our belief is that people are going
to want to receive their news from
creators that they trust. And so um
instead of maybe it being several people
contributing to a vertical and the
articles within that vertical, this is
creator first journalism. So they're
whether they're on camera or
voiceovered, um it is their channel.
Yeah. Yeah. It's about the anchor, not
the news network.
Yeah. Exactly. And it's about the
person's voice and their style, which is
going to it's going to take a million
different forms. We're not going to try
to control the editorial tone. We're
going to make sure it's factual and
beautiful.
Yeah.
But it's going to be their minds
expressed out loud on their channel.
Yeah. There's ethics that each of us
come on board and we say okay these are
the ethics of the journalism we're doing
handshake like and it's a brainstorm
do you feel that why do you feel that I
don't feel that okay well then why don't
we tweak the words so that it's this you
know okay does that capture what all of
us want to do here yes all right we now
have our rubric like this is the thing
that we just continually look back to
and decide like are we on track because
I'm sure you come up against this
we're moving quick y
and we need to move quick right because
it's all changing and is shifting and we
want to we want to be on the forefront
of that. We want to be making journalism
that really matters and reaches people.
How to do that efficiently and quickly
without sacrificing the core values and
the ethics behind what we do. That's a
delicate day-to-day balance that both of
us are minding and taking very
seriously. And there are stories that
we're just not telling because they're
too voyeristic or they, you know, we
don't feel like we have the expertise.
It's a story we may have told two years
ago, but now like Cleo should do that
story. We shouldn't do that story, you
know. And so really trying to take
seriously what we do best and what makes
us uniquely good storytellers, Kristoff
a uniquely good storyteller, Sam, you
know, and so on. I just think you guys
are raising the bar and doing it
together and uh doing it for YouTubers
everywhere. So, thank you for taking the
time.
Thanks for
Thank you. This was a blast. I love your
work, by the way. I was really excited
to get to come on here
and we wouldn't be able to do it without
the team. I just want that to be so
clear. They're so solid and awesome and
fun to work with and
um we're really really grateful that
they care about doing what we're doing.
Yeah, absolutely. It means the world you
guys took the time. Thank you guys.
Things are right in us.